All right.
So that completes yet another section of the course, the props section.
And before we dive into the review, I'd just like to go back to our user story, which we introduced
at the very beginning.
I think at this point we have completed our original user story.
As a user, I'd like to have my primary and secondary actions suggested to me so that I know what steps
I can take on the website.
The way we decided to tackle this strategy is by introducing two types of buttons, and in order to
make that happen, we customised our existing action button component.
We did not introduce any new components.
Rather, we introduced the idea of props, which helped us add that level of flexibility and customisation
to our button component to our action.
Bang.
All right.
With that, let's review everything we learned in this section.
First up, what are props?
Props are arguments that we can pass to components whenever we instantiate them.
And when I use the word instantiate, I simply mean render a component from a parent.
Right.
And that brings us to another piece of terminology, which is parent and child.
As a reminder, the parent component is the component that renders another component, and that component
that is being rendered is called the child.
So when we're talking about props, we're talking about a parent component such as main NAV, parsing
some kind of data or information down to a child.
And with a prop, we always have the prop name and then we have the prop value and we do that with a
pair of equal signs in between the prop name and its corresponding value.
Whenever a prop value changes, the child component will re render given the new value of that prop.
All right.
We talked about the idea that whenever we pass a prop value down view will always interpret it as a
string, which of course presents a problem whenever we want to pass down a more complex data type,
like an array or an object or a boolean, or even some kind of property that is connected to our parent
components data object.
In that scenario, we have to use the V bind directive.
We can either write V, bind, call in or use the shorthand syntax, which is of course a colon.
We also talked about the idea of using kabob case, which is the preferred way of the view style guide.
That is, whenever you have a prop that has multiple words, Vue recommends that you write them all
in lowercase and then separate every two words with a dash or a hyphen that is called kabob case.
In addition to props, we also talked about a very important part of Vue, which is computed properties.
We can set up computed properties on a configuration object for any view component in our app, and
a computed property is a derived dependent piece of data.
In other words, it can't stand or exist by itself.
It needs some other source of data, some other source of truth, and it offers an alternate representation
of that data or some kind of derived information from that data.
And in the lessons that preceded, we of course used a computed property to generate a JavaScript object
to provide for our access classes, and that object was dependent on an existing piece of data that
can come literally from the components data property.
But as we also saw, it can come from the props that we pass and it doesn't matter what the source is.
What matters is if the piece of data is calculated or derived.
I'm trying to find as many synonyms as I can find here.
Derived, calculated, computed.
As long as it's coming from something else.
We don't want to duplicate that original data and store it elsewhere.
So instead we use a computed property and whenever that original data changes, view will rerun the
computed property.
If it references that original piece of data, a view keeps an eye on what is changing and reruns the
right computed properties when it needs to.
Okay.
And when it comes to templates, we can utilize it computed property the exact same way as a data property
we can embedded within the template using interpolation, using the double curly braces.
We can use it in places like V bind as we did with the class attribute.
Same deal, same exact syntax, but it's computed.
Okay.
We saw that we can combined v v bind with the class attribute to provide dynamic styles to an h two
now element.
And whenever we do that, Vue expects a JavaScript object where the properties are class names and the
values are booleans.
If the value is true, we're telling Vue to apply the CC class that is the property name in that object.
In comparison, if we have a false that tells Vue, do not apply this class again.
That class is represented by the object property.
We saw how we can write that object directly inline, but how it made more sense to transfer it to our
actual Vue configuration object, whether it be in data or computed, because it is kind of more JavaScript
in a sense than it is HTML.
So it makes sense to keep our HTML template a section of our view component as clean as possible and
move a lot of our business logic to our actual script section where we have all of our JavaScript.
All right.
We also saw that we can use props within our child components, data and computed properties.
We can reference those props using the this keyword we use that to reference, for example, are a type
of property that we passed into our action button, which allowed us to, as you saw, come up with
a lot of interesting ways to style the child component from the parent perspective.
We also saw that JavaScript allows us to set dynamic names such as constants or variables as object
properties.
We have to provide the square brackets and we utilize this technique in our computed properties where
we used the type prop from the parent to dynamically set access class on the object that we bound to
the class attribute on our button in action.
But that was some pretty advanced syntax that used the combination of view features as well as E-6 JavaScript
features.
All right.
We also talked about prop validation.
We can validate things like the data type.
Is the prop going to be a string or a number or a boolean, etc.?
We can also use prop validation to mandate that a prop is required or alternatively declare it as optional
non-mandatory.
We can also provide a default value to fall back to in case the parent does not provide a given value.
And the benefit of all of this is that Vue will inform us of these violations in the browser console
so we can fix them up and make sure our app is more stable and less prone to error.
And sometimes our tests will catch those violations too.
So it helps to be more explicit with Vue and tell it all of these validations so it knows what to check
for.
Speaking of validations, what if we have our own custom check that we'd like to add to our component?
For example, maybe one prop will be a number and we want to validate that that number is going to be
greater than 20.
That may be some kind of business logic.
How can we check for that?
We can add a validator method to any prop validation object and that will allow us to validate custom
business logic.
That method must return a boolean either true or false.
True.
If we want to approve the validation and false.
If we do not.
And finally, when it comes to testing, we saw in the view test utils that we can use the classes method
on a view test utils wrapper object that can be either the original mounted object or anything that
we search for within it, such as a target HTML element.
We can use the classes method to test whether a class is present on the target, and that was helpful
in this section to validate that the prop that we passed in was correctly setting a dynamic CSS class
on our action button button element.
All right.
That's all there is to cover in this section.
Hopefully, it's been a lot of fun learning about props and in the very next section we're going to
get to work building R seven now.
So I will see you there.